elcome back in this video we would be discussing about some of the advantages of microServices.

Architecture is the most important advantage of the MicroServices architecture is that it enables you

to adapt new technology and processes very easy.

When they build applications as a combination of microservices which can communicate with each other

using simple messages each of these microservices can be built in different technologies.

Typical more nolet applications people would not have that flexibility.

For example Microservice one might be java MicroService two might be Nodejs Microservice three might be

written in Kotlin and tomorrow there might be a language X Y Z which is really doing well and which

provides a lot of benefits to you and you can easily create a micro service in that specific language.

And also for the new Microservices that we create we can bring in new processors as well.

The other important advantage of Microservices is Dynamic scaling consider an online shopping application

like Amazon.

They don't really have the same amount of load or same amount of traffic or same amount of users throughout

the year especially during the holiday season.

The load on the application will be a lot and during the rest of the year there might not be so much

load during the Black Friday there might be a huge amount of load.

If your microServices are cloud enabled they can scale dynamically and you can procure hardware and release

that dynamically as well.

So you can scale up your applications and scale them down based on the Loadd because you're developing

smaller components.

It's much easier to release micro services compared to monolith applications.

This means that you can bring new features faster to market and that's a big advantage to have in the

modern world.

In this video we discuss about three of the most important advantages of Microservices

its adoption of new technology and processes dynamic scaling and faster release cycles until the next video

bye bye.

Purée.

